# Tips for Achieving Good Visuals

A graphics engine, even physically-based and carefully crafted, doesn't guarantee that any content will look good in it no matter what. PBR makes graphics optically consistent, but not necessarily beautiful. And it actually makes it harder to do artistic tricks from the previous (non-PBR) era to make games look the way we want. We have to use linear color and high dynamic range with tonemapping, which means textures and sprites will not look exactly the same as in sRGB in the image editor. It all comes down to lighting, environment, and post-processing.

- **Express artistic intent through BRDF** rather than base color textures. This doesn't mean that base color doesn't matter, but proper normal maps and roughness/metallic maps do amazing job if used right. Even a poor normal map is better than no normal map at all in places where the user expects surface details. Use 3D painting tools like Adobe Substance.
- **Use quality HDRI environment maps**. For example [PolyHaven](https://polyhaven.com/) provides a huge collection of great free HDRIs. The key is to carefully choose an envmap that suits your scene best. This is not always easy. It is also a very challenging task to implement realistic daytime changes with static envmaps. But with PBR workflow using an envmap is always better than not using one; in fact, the whole point of PBR is to streamline image-based lighting in games.
- **Find a balance between brightly lit areas and shadows**. Too much contrast is usually bad, too little contrast is also bad. Fine-tune ambient energy factor, sun energy, tonemapper and exposure settings. Auto exposure simplifies things a lot, but it should not be very noticeable (there are people who don't like it).
- **Use volumetric light effects** where appropriate. They create the feeling of air, making the picture less synthetic.
- **Make the rendering sharper**. Enable anisotropic filtering and CAS for high-profile, commercial look (many AAA games even overdo this, making the image too sharp).
- **Use a LUT to adjust colors**. This is a very popular tool in film industry; LUTs are the most efficient way to achieve vibrant, "Hollywood" look, or stylized retro vibes. But LUTs should be used with care because with too much adjustment it's easy to just crush colors instead of improving them.
- **Artistic imperfection** is the key for making computer graphics more life-like. Cinematic effects like lens distortion, motion blur, film grain are there to add a soul to the picture, in the same way as in photography. However, a game is a game, not a movie. Post-processing is just an aesthetic adjustment, and it's important not to overdo it.
